hey welcome back and welcome to section
three testing your smart contract in the
last section we completed the code for a
smart contract one important part of
that smart contract remains testing it
to ensure it does exactly what it's
supposed to you may not be familiar with
writing test for code or maybe you know
the concept but haven't really spent a
lot of time doing it we're gonna start
this section off by understanding why
tests are necessary I'm confident this
video is gonna help you out in multiple
ways you'll learn why tests are an
important component of modern software
engineering you'll get some tips and
tricks to help you learn how and where
you should be writing tests you're even
going to get some tools to help you
convince others why tests are important
because I know firsthand that sometimes
you're not the one who needs convincing
are you ready well let's go writing test
is time-consuming not just writing the
tests themselves but planning what tests
are needed and designing your code so
that it's actually testable this makes
it tough to get started especially when
you're working under tight time
constraints stick with me through this
video though and I'm gonna give you some
tips guidelines and strategies to get
you your team and your manager download
testing since writing tests happens
early in the development cycle it's hard
to associate them with value after all
you could be writing code that does
something but here you are writing tests
tests for code that doesn't exist yet
the truth is the value from tests comes
months or years down the road when you
have to make a change to the code and
need to make sure that you aren't
breaking something this is a hard habit
for humans to grasp we're very much
focused on what's in it for me right now
think about how many times you've failed
on a diet or when sticking to your new
year's I'm really gonna get in shape
this year resolution sticking with a
long term plan that isn't currently
causing pain is difficult to do then
when you decide that you're gonna write
tests anyway you're faced with the
decision what tests do I need this
problem forces you to think through your
code and the system architecture and to
design it in such a way that it can be
tested and go back to the drawing board
when your first solution doesn't work
these are problems you're going to have
to face anyway
so the question is do you want to face
them now before you write the code or
after you have 10,000 lines of code in
production in spite of all these reasons
you're gonna write tests anyway deep
down you know what's the way it should
be done this is a new project using new
languages and using new tools it's the
perfect time to add some new habits as
well a really interesting thing to me
about writing tests is that everyone
thinks you're already doing it anyway
any engineer who looks at your code will
know whether you are not but that's not
who I'm really referring to I'm
referring to your manager who's counting
on you to do the best work possible your
co-workers who are gonna be contributing
to this project are counting on you so
that they can safely add to the codebase
without fear of breaking something your
executives who may not know what tests
are but they know that they've hired the
best people possible and even when they
don't know what to ask for
they know that you're doing what's best
for everyone involved and don't forget
to include yourself in this category you
want to do work that you're proud of
that's satisfying and when you're the
engineer who has to come back and update
this code long after you've forgotten
what it does future you is counting on
you as well tests are for the people who
are trusting you with their ether
specifically as we start to write code
to transfer people's money they're
counting on you when they use your app
they're placing their trust in you that
you've taken every precaution necessary
to ensure the safety of their money
writing test isn't all about guilt and
motivation though there are actual
tangible benefits to you so let's review
some of those typos incorrect logic and
simple human mistakes introduce bugs
into software by writing tests that
verify a function does exactly what it's
supposed to is the fastest way to find
bugs before they ever leave your
workstation this results in fewer bugs
further down the road and saving the
time it would take to find them making
changes to the code either in the form
of updating existing code or adding new
features is easier by running the test
you can commit your code with a higher
level of confidence that everything that
used to work still works
because you have a set of tests to
validate that I'll throw in one side
note here though don't think that you
have to have a complete set of tests to
cover every possible scenario on day one
it's okay to write the tests that you
think are important and then as you
learn more later add additional tests
based on that new information you get
built in documentation tests are usually
very readable this means if you aren't
sure how something works rather than
hoping there's some documentation
somewhere you can just look at the tests
they'll show you exactly what it does in
both passing and failing scenarios
debugging gets a lot easier with tests
after all you only need to go back and
look at the changes that were made to
the code since the tests started failing
you actually end up with a better design
system as a result as well by forcing
yourself to design your code in a way
that each component is testable you
build smaller more functional pieces
this makes code easier to reuse and can
help to prevent you from designing
monstrous chunks of code that take in a
bunch of data and somehow magically spit
out an answer at the end well if you
were undecided on tests at the start of
this video I hope I've made some
progress in convincing you of their
value let me also offer some tips on how
not to write your tests don't write your
unit tests later do it now when it's
relevant if you add it to do for later
once that code is completed it almost
never gets done think about the last
time you were gonna get up in the
morning and go to the gym only when you
woke up you said nah I'll do it later
most of the time it doesn't happen right
don't have someone else write your tests
and there's two reasons for this
designing your tests will impact how you
write your code if you write the code
then assign the test to someone else
that feedback loop is lost as well as
the learning experience
it also takes twice as long if someone
else is writing the test their first
task is to learn how you solve this
problem and that's something you already
knew so now you're spending more time
solving a problem that didn't need to be
solved as we finish this video up let's
set the stage for the next videos where
we actually write some tests by setting
some guidelines for good tests
should be simple and only test one thing
if you find yourself trying to recreate
complex scenarios for the test it's time
to take a step back and see how you can
break this down further tests should be
readable future developers which may
include yourself are going to rely on
these tests to understand how the code
works keeping them simple into the point
will be more effective and set an
environment where it's easier to keep
those tests up to date you have to be
able to rely on your tests if a test
fails it should be because the
conditions dictated it if you find that
some tests fail for reasons other than
the code take a step back and see if you
can eliminate any external factors that
are incorrectly influencing the test
results and tests should complete
quickly for unit tests this means a few
seconds and for integration tests a few
minutes at most the longer it takes for
a test suite to complete the less likely
it is that people are going to use it ok
we've set the stage for writing tests so
let's jump into the next video where
we're going to start writing unit tests
for our solidity contract I'll see you
there